>>> WE ARE CAPABLE OF SO MUCH
>>> WE ARE CAPABLE OF SO MUCH THAN WHAT WE’RE DOING RIGHT NOW.
THAN WHAT WE’RE DOING RIGHT NOW. LIKE WE ARE CAPABLE OF
LIKE WE ARE CAPABLE OF EVERYTHING IN THE WORLD.
EVERYTHING IN THE WORLD. WE ARE CAPABLE OF SAVING THE
WE ARE CAPABLE OF SAVING THE PLANET, OF GUARANTEEING HEALTH
PLANET, OF GUARANTEEING HEALTH CARE AS A RIGHT, OF EDUCATING
CARE AS A RIGHT, OF EDUCATING OUR CHILDREN THROUGH COLLEGE.
OUR CHILDREN THROUGH COLLEGE. WE ARE CAPABLE OF ESTABLISHING
WE ARE CAPABLE OF ESTABLISHING ALL WORK AS DIGNIFIED, OF
ALL WORK AS DIGNIFIED, OF RESPECTING PEOPLE’S CULTURES.
RESPECTING PEOPLE’S CULTURES. OF HAVING AN ECONOMY THAT NOT
OF HAVING AN ECONOMY THAT NOT ONLY WELCOMES IMMIGRANTS BUT
ONLY WELCOMES IMMIGRANTS BUT NEEDS IMMIGRANTS BECAUSE WE ARE
NEEDS IMMIGRANTS BECAUSE WE ARE BEING SO PRODUCTIVE.
BEING SO PRODUCTIVE. WE ARE CAPABLE OF ALL OF THESE
WE ARE CAPABLE OF ALL OF THESE THINGS.
THINGS. >> JOINING US NOW SOMEONE I’VE
>> JOINING US NOW SOMEONE I’VE WANTED TO TALK TO SINCE HE WENT
WANTED TO TALK TO SINCE HE WENT VIRAL AT DAVOS, PROFESSOR RUTGER
VIRAL AT DAVOS, PROFESSOR RUTGER BREGMAN, A DUTCH HISTORIAN AND
BREGMAN, A DUTCH HISTORIAN AND AUTHOR OF THE BOOK "UTOPIA FOR
AUTHOR OF THE BOOK "UTOPIA FOR RE
RE REALISTS."
REALISTS." I WANTED TO GET YOUR REACTION OF
I WANTED TO GET YOUR REACTION OF THE SOCIALIST DEBATE WHICH HAS
THE SOCIALIST DEBATE WHICH HAS TAKEN OVER THE PRESIDENTIAL
TAKEN OVER THE PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN.
CAMPAIGN. THE REPUBLICANS INTEND TO RUN
THE REPUBLICANS INTEND TO RUN AGAINST SOCIALISM EVERY DAY OF
AGAINST SOCIALISM EVERY DAY OF THIS CAMPAIGN.
THIS CAMPAIGN. >> TO ME IT SEEMS A BIT OF A
>> TO ME IT SEEMS A BIT OF A BEWILDERING DISCUSSION AND
BEWILDERING DISCUSSION AND ACTIVITY, THIS WHOLE DISCUSSION
ACTIVITY, THIS WHOLE DISCUSSION ABOUT CAPITALISM VERSUS
ABOUT CAPITALISM VERSUS SOCIALISM IN AMERICA.
SOCIALISM IN AMERICA. BECAUSE WHAT WE’RE ACTUALLY
BECAUSE WHAT WE’RE ACTUALLY TALKING ABOUT ARE POLICIES THAT
TALKING ABOUT ARE POLICIES THAT ARE HUGELY POPULAR, YOU KNOW,
ARE HUGELY POPULAR, YOU KNOW, AMONG THE VAST MAJORITY OF
AMONG THE VAST MAJORITY OF AMERICANS.
AMERICANS. 67% WANT GUARANTEED MATERNITY
67% WANT GUARANTEED MATERNITY LEAVE, 18% ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT
LEAVE, 18% ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT THE NEW GREEN BILL.
THE NEW GREEN BILL. THESE ARE HUGE POLICIES THAT
THESE ARE HUGE POLICIES THAT WORK REALLY WELL IN THE
WORK REALLY WELL IN THE COUNTRIES THAT TRIED THEM.
COUNTRIES THAT TRIED THEM. SO IT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
SO IT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH SOCIALISM OR COMMUNISM OR
SOCIALISM OR COMMUNISM OR WHATEVER.
WHATEVER. >> AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
>> AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT EUROPEAN COUNTRIES HAVE COME TO
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES HAVE COME TO TERMS WITH IS THE KIND OF CALM
TERMS WITH IS THE KIND OF CALM NOTION THAT THESE THINGS GET
NOTION THAT THESE THINGS GET MIXED, THAT YOU CAN HAVE SOME
MIXED, THAT YOU CAN HAVE SOME PRETTY GRAND DEMONSTRATIONS OF
PRETTY GRAND DEMONSTRATIONS OF CAPITALISM AND INNOVATIVE
CAPITALISM AND INNOVATIVE CAPITALISM IN EUROPE, RIGHT
CAPITALISM IN EUROPE, RIGHT BESIDE A GRAND SOCIALIST PROJECT
BESIDE A GRAND SOCIALIST PROJECT LIKE HIGH-SPEED RAIL GOING ALL
LIKE HIGH-SPEED RAIL GOING ALL OVER EUROPE.
OVER EUROPE. >> EXACTLY.
>> EXACTLY. WELL, ACTUALLY CAPITALISM AND
WELL, ACTUALLY CAPITALISM AND THE WEALTH THEY NEED EACH OTHER.
THE WEALTH THEY NEED EACH OTHER. SO SOMETHING LIKE A GUARANTEED
SO SOMETHING LIKE A GUARANTEED BASIC INCOME LIKE I’VE BEEN
BASIC INCOME LIKE I’VE BEEN ARGUING FOR WOULD ACTUALLY BE
ARGUING FOR WOULD ACTUALLY BE VENTER CAPITAL FOR THE PEOPLE,
VENTER CAPITAL FOR THE PEOPLE, SO THAT EVERYONE COULD START A
SO THAT EVERYONE COULD START A NEW COMPANY AND MOVE TO A
NEW COMPANY AND MOVE TO A DIFFERENT JOB AND MOVE TO A
DIFFERENT JOB AND MOVE TO A DIFFERENT CITY WHICH WILL MAKE
DIFFERENT CITY WHICH WILL MAKE THE ECONOMY MUCH MORE DIMAMYNAMI
THE ECONOMY MUCH MORE DIMAMYNAMI EVERY SLIVER OF FUNDAMENTAL
EVERY SLIVER OF FUNDAMENTAL TECHNOLOGY IN THE iPHONE WAS
TECHNOLOGY IN THE iPHONE WAS INVENLTED
INVENLTED INVENLTIN
INVENLTIN INVENTED BY THE RESEARCHERS ON
INVENTED BY THE RESEARCHERS ON THE GOVERNMENT PAYROLL.
THE GOVERNMENT PAYROLL. SO ALL THESE BREAK THROUGH
SO ALL THESE BREAK THROUGH TECHNOLOGIES ARE FINANCED BY THE
TECHNOLOGIES ARE FINANCED BY THE GOVERNMENT.
GOVERNMENT. CAPITALISM AND THE GOVERNMENT,
CAPITALISM AND THE GOVERNMENT, THEY NEED EACH OTHER.
THEY NEED EACH OTHER. >> HOW WOULD YOU SUGGEST
>> HOW WOULD YOU SUGGEST DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES HANDLE
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES HANDLE THIS WHEN THEY ARE ASKED
THIS WHEN THEY ARE ASKED QUESTIONS LIKE ARE YOU A
QUESTIONS LIKE ARE YOU A CAPITALIST, ARE YOU A SOCIALIST?
CAPITALIST, ARE YOU A SOCIALIST? >> YOU’RE JUST BEAL A REALEST,
>> YOU’RE JUST BEAL A REALEST, RIGHT?
RIGHT? I THINK THAT’S WHAT THIS IS
I THINK THAT’S WHAT THIS IS REALLY ABOUT.
REALLY ABOUT. WE NEED A MASSIVE TRANSFORMATION
WE NEED A MASSIVE TRANSFORMATION OF THE ECONOMY WHEN WE TALK
OF THE ECONOMY WHEN WE TALK ABOUT ISSUES LIKE CLIMATE CHANGE
ABOUT ISSUES LIKE CLIMATE CHANGE OR THE ECONOMY.
OR THE ECONOMY. IT’S REALLY THE SO-CALLED
IT’S REALLY THE SO-CALLED MODERATES, THE CENTRISTS, THAT’S
MODERATES, THE CENTRISTS, THAT’S THE REAL RADICAL FRINGE.
THE REAL RADICAL FRINGE. IT’S REALLY A CRAZY RADICAL IDEA
IT’S REALLY A CRAZY RADICAL IDEA OF STICKING TO THE STATUS QUO
OF STICKING TO THE STATUS QUO RIGHT NOW.
RIGHT NOW. >> I GET YOUR POINT ON WHY IT’S
>> I GET YOUR POINT ON WHY IT’S RADICAL TO BE MODERATE.
RADICAL TO BE MODERATE. >> THE CHALLENGES ARE HUGE RIGHT
>> THE CHALLENGES ARE HUGE RIGHT NOW.
NOW. WE HAVE TO GO TO EMISSIONS ON A
WE HAVE TO GO TO EMISSIONS ON A GLOBAL SCALE BY 250.
GLOBAL SCALE BY 250. SO WE NEED THAT HUGE
SO WE NEED THAT HUGE TRANSFORMATION OF THE ECONOMY.
TRANSFORMATION OF THE ECONOMY. SO THEN IF YOU SAY I’M A
SO THEN IF YOU SAY I’M A MODERATE, WE SHOULD TINKER
MODERATE, WE SHOULD TINKER AROUND THE EDGES, THAT’S A
AROUND THE EDGES, THAT’S A PRETTY CRAZY PROPOSITION IF YOU